It's time to take a deep dive
into famous source code.
We're going to take all
that we've learned and
see if we can't use it to
understand the structure and
style of famous well-used
open source code.
The library's perhaps the most famous
JavaScript library there is, is jQuery.
We're going to examine it.
We're going to dive into its source code.
We're not going to try and understand
how every feature is implemented, but
we're going to try to see
one if we can read the code.
And two,
If we can learn from how it's structured,
if we can gain some knowledge and
some techniques, and
borrow some ideas from inside
source code of jQuery.
If you've done any JavaScript coding or
any web development in general,
to be honest, you're probably
at least familiar with jQuery.
If not, jQuery is a JavaScript library
that doesn't add any features to
the browser or to JavaScript itself.
It's just a JavaScript library.
What it does do is make it easier to type
syntactically to write certain things and
it deals with cross browser issues,
meaning that each browser,
Firefox, Safari, Google Chrome,
Internet Explorer, and
various mobile versions of these browsers,
all have their quirks and differences.
jQuery handles those so
you don't have to worry about it.
You just are doing what you want to do and
the code inside of jQuery is
handling the browser quirks.
What jQuery does essentially
is let you manipulate the DOM.
The DOM is the Document Object Model
inside a browser.
It's separate from the JavaScript engine.
It's the thing that lets
the browser look at HTML and
decide how to render it or
paint it on the screen.
And JavaScript has access to the dom.
It can manipulate it.
It can manipulate the structure of
an HTML page after it's been loaded
by manipulating the dom that's in memory.
That is this tree like structure
that houses or stores.
A representation of your HTML that's
used to paint or render on the screen.
jQuery then makes it easy to look
at that tree, to look at the DOM,
to find things, to find elements
on your page and manipulate them.
So what is it that we actually
get when we use jQuery?
Well, If I just have a variable,
let's say q, jQuery has
a dollar sign for its name that you can
use, or you can use the word jQuery.
We'll use dollar sign
cuz it's less typing.
And then you pass it a string.
You give it a string, and
what I've set up is a very basic
HTML page that has our jQuery reference.
At the time of the recording of this
course, we're using jQuery 1.11.2.
You can use the latest if you like, and
then I have my app.js after the fact.
Also note that jQuery has a 2.0 version,
but that isn't more up to date.
The 2.0 version doesn't bother
with some really old browsers, so
it removes some code that's there for
really old browsers.
If your project doesn't
have to worry about that,
then you might as well not have all
that extra code in the library.
We're just gonna use 1.11.2, and that's
the one that we're going to examine.
And even if we're looking at
a later version of jQuery,
by the time you take this course,
the basic structure will still be valid.
I've set up a div with an id and
the class attribute.
And I've set up a header and
an unordered list with three items in it.
If you aren't familiar with html,
don't worry.
This isn't a huge requirement for
this lecture.
We're going to look at the source
code of jQuery itself, but
we just wanted to understand what it does.
So if I refresh this here, I have
a header and three items in the list.
That's what this did.
So in jQuery now,
what's happened is this is now sitting
in reality in a tree-like representation
in memory inside the browser.
And JavaScript has access to all of these.
This would be a parent and
then a child and then a grandchild and
on down the line.
These are parent and
child kind of relationships.
So jQuery lets me do something like ul,
and
that would find me all
the uls inside the tree.
And I can even search for a specific one,
like all uls that have a class people.
And all ULs that have a class people,
I want to find all of the LIs
that are children of ULs
that have a class people.
If you're familiar with CSS,
jQuery is essentially letting you query
the tree just like you would in CSS.
Let's see what we get when we run this.
When we get this object back from J query,
having passed in what I'm looking for.
I'll refresh and open my console.
Interesting.
I get an objective of type jquery.fn.init,
not just jquery.
And it looks to be an array,
or at least array like.
That's a zero and that's my LI,
my second LI, and my third LI.
And each LI is an element,
which is called a DOM element.
It's got things like inner HTML InnerText.
This is just a standard browser element.
Nothing special there.
But it did find them, and gave them to me.
Let's look at my __proto__.
That's a jQuery object, and
if I open it up,
It has a whole bunch of methods on it.
So remember how we said it's better
to put methods on the prototype
to save memory space.
Well here it is.
We have a prototype that has
a huge number of features and
functionality that make jQuery so
popular, all kinds of stuff we can do.
So in some way we're
getting back an array,
with a prototype that has
a whole lot of features,
a whole lot of methods on it, things
that we can do then with this object.
All right, and it's kind of unusual
that we're seeing .fn.init,
that's a little unexpected.
What is that?
Well let's see how this is structured.
And also note that we didn't
use the new operator.
We just said $ and pass the string.
Let's see how this is
working under the hood.
I've downloaded the unmodified
development version of jQuery.
So let's just open it.
And here it is.
Pretty huge with lots of comments.
Cuz of all those comments and
it's unminified.
It's over 10,000 lines long.
We're not gonna go through
all of these lines.
Let's look and see if we can
find things that look familiar.
If we can understand it's structure,
and see what we can learn.
No, wait a minute.
I have a challenge for you.
Before we go through the rest of this
lecture and the rest of this section.
Stop right here.
Pause this video.
And go take a look at J query for
yourself.
You have the tools to understand
a lot of what you're seeing.
Maybe not everything, but don't be afraid.
Don't be intimidated
by the amount of code.
There are very few things in here that
you haven't seen in this course already.
So I challenge you to stop, and take a
look around inside the jQuery source code.
Look at the structure.
See if you can find, The immediately
invoked function expressions.
Where we're using Object Literal syntax.
Head to the bottom of it,
and see if you can understand how
it's exposed in the global object.
Find where the jQuery.fn.inet is
being used, and what does that mean?
We're going to go through all of that.
But my challenge is to pause right now.
Take a look for yourself.
Ready?
Go for it.
Alright, are you back?
Let's keep going.
For starters,
it has a nice introductory comment.
And then, what's the first thing we see?
You guessed it.
It's an immediately invoked
function expression.
It's using the parentheses to trick
the syntax parser into treating
this as a function expression.
So it's wrapping those entire lines,
all the features of jQuery.
Inside a function call.
So that makes sense.
The function itself, takes two parameters.
Global and factory.
Well that makes sense, we did that before.
Deciding what is the global object.
In fact, if I look here.
It's checking for something called module,
and using the typeof, you've seen that.
It's checking to see of module is
an object and module.exports is an object.
And the comment tells us this is for
CommonJS like environments.
Or node.js.
So it looks like what it's doing,
is it's checking to see what the
environment is that jQuery is living in.
And then making certain decisions
about how to work with the global
object in those cases.
I don't need to worry
about this too much then.
Let's see where it actually calls.
Well actually it calls this function
there, it's immediately invoked.
So it immediately invokes this here,
and passes as the global.
See this?
There's the global, and here's where
it's invoking this function expression.
It's checking to see if
there's a window object.
So that's neat.
We understand that in the browser,
the global object is window.
So if window is not equal to undefined.
Oh this is a ternary operator.
It takes three parameters.
The first parameter is a boolean.
If the boolean is true, it returns this.
If the boolean is False.
Then it returns whatever's on
the other side of the colon.
So it's saying,
if window is not equal to undefined.
And notice, it uses the strict,
not going to coerce.
Not equals.
Because it's not double equals.
If window is not undefined then
pass window to this global.
Otherwise pass whatever
this is pointing to.
Which would be the global object in
whatever environment you're sitting in.
Maybe JS or something.
And then it passes a factory.
And it looks like that factory
is what's returned in this case.
So this is actually
the function expression
that wraps a whole bunch of code.
See that?
So this is just taking care
of where is jQuery sitting.
And this is actually the jQuery code.
Alright.
So, this is another function expression.
This one is window, and noGlobal.
Let's try to remember that.
But we do know that we're getting
the window object as some point in here.
When this factory is
actually being invoked.
See that?
it's invoked up there.
And it's being passed in
to this function here.
This function expression
is being passed to factory.
And factory's being invoked at some point.
All right.
So what happens when this is invoked?
Well, it sets up some variables
in this new execution context.
See that?
When the factory is invoked,
which ends up being this
function object that's passed in.
I get a new execution context, and
it starts creating some variables.
All right, here's the important one here.
Let's see.
jQuery.
We know that's the one that we can use
in our code, in order to call this.
And as expected, it's a function.
And it takes a selector, and a context.
Well we've already used the selector.
That's what jQuery calls that string where
you're passing in what HTML
elements you're trying to find.
So that's neat.
But I'm surprised here,
that I don't have a bunch of code.
Instead it's returning and then using
the new operator jQuery.fn.init.
Oh and remember,
when we created a jQuery object.
In here and console.logged it.
Remember what that was?
It was a jQuery.fn.init.
So this makes sense.
The jQuery function isn't
a function constructor.
It's just a function.
That's why we don't have
to use the new operator.
All it is is a function
that returns an object.
But it does return an object by
calling a function constructor.
See that?
It uses the new keyword.
So it keeps me from having to use
the new keyword myself all the time.
And possibly forgetting
it when using jQuery.
That's a neat trick.
A function that returns a call
to a function constructor.
Keeps me from having to use the new
keyword myself, when I use J query.
Alright, so let's keep that in mind.
So somewhere down the line
we're going to find out that
this somewhere is a function constructor.
So init function constructor
sitting on some fn object.
Which will be sitting
on this jQuery object.
Alright, so moving on.
Let's see if we can find, oh here we go.
Jquery.fm, there it is.
What is it?
Well, it's a reference.
Remember that these are objects, and
therefore they're passed by reference.
So fn is pointing at the same memory spot,
as the prototype property
of the jQuery function.
Remember all functions get
a .prototype property.
Which is used if they're used
as a function constructor.
But it's really just hanging out there.
Even though we're not using this as
a function constructor, it's still there.
It's just an empty object.
So it's using this empty object and
having an alias for it.
I guess that's just so it doesn't
have to type .prototype all the time.
We can just type .fn,
it's a lot faster to type.
All right.
So when we see that .fn,
we need to remember that this
just means function prototype.
The prototype property on this function,
the same prototype all functions get.
And it's being overwritten with a new
object, see the object literal syntax.
It's creating a bunch of name value pairs,
a bunch of properties.
All right, so if we go down, let's
see what's inside this jQuery.fn that
has all of these properties.
Well, we have some things we're
not gonna worry about too much.
Well, here are some things we've seen,
each and map using a callback.
So you're passing
a callback to a function.
And look, on that for example,
it does callback.call.
So it is invoking whatever function
you give it in the map and
probably acting on that element.
Well that's kind of like out map for
each, remember?
It's calling back whatever we
give it on some list of things.
We'll just go on,
cuz it looks like there's some other
deeper functions that do this.
So it started off with this
object that has these properties.
What's the next thing I see?
Well, this is interesting.
Another double reference,
so essentially an alias giving
two names to the same function.
It's a function object.
We've got a function expression here.
And it's called extend.
Hey, I bet that's the same concept
that we saw in underscore.
So it's being added to the .fn and
to jQuery itself,
as a reference to the one single function.
And inside it,
it looks like it's doing some kind of
deep copy, and adding on objects.
Yeah, this is the same as the underscore
essentially, that we saw where
it's adding things to an object.
It's taking properties and methods off
one object and adding them to another.
So it's looking at the arguments.length,
so
I probably can pass in as
many objects as I want.
Let's see and yeah we have a for
loop on the length.
So on all of the arguments so if I pass
in a bunch of objects as arguments
to this function as parameters it'll go
through all of them and add all of there.
Yeah see the for in.
So if I add three objects for
example to this extend function,
I'll end up with a length of three.
And it'll find each argument and
then it'll go through using for
in that we saw before.
It's using reflection to go
through all the properties and
methods of every object that I add or
that I passed in to this function.
And what is it doing with this for in?
For names,
we need to find whatever name is used and
see what it's doing, well,
it's doing a source and a copy.
So, without getting too
much into what it's doing,
it basically looks like
it's doing what we said.
It's adding on properties and
methods of an object to an object.
That's interesting.
We have a target, and
our target is, what is our target?
Our target is our first argument.
So the first thing we pass to extend
is what we want to actually extend,
where we want to drop these properties and
methods, which object is receiving them.
And the rest of the parameters and
which objects hold them.
So we're adding all of the other
parameters to the first one.
All right, so that's neat.
So source is where we're copying
our methods and properties to.
And so it's adding a new method and
property.
But it's using extend again, probably
because objects can hold other objects.
So it's making sure that every
possible method and property,
even of sub-objects,
is being added on to our target.
All right, so we have this really cool
extend method that's really serious.
I mean, it does a good job of extending.
And we can pass it an object or
even sub-objects, and I'll get all those
methods and properties on my target
object where I want them to be.
In fact, right away it uses it.
Look at that.
It calls extend and adds methods and
properties to the jQuery object.
Neat.
Okay, so wait a minute,
wasn't the first argument the target?
Let's see.
What else can we learn here?